In this lesson, we will add animation offsets: up, down, right, left.
After that, aiming while shooting will look absolutely correct.
Let's start by debugging the output of the camera rotation vector, which we need to calculate the
deflection angles when aiming. Go to the animated blueprint of the character, to the event graph.
We will need a special function that has access to the rotation of the camera. This function exists
in the pawn class. GetBaseAimRotation is called. If the pawn has a controller, and we have it with you,
then this function returns the rotation of the player's camera. Let's check that this is indeed the case
and draw the forward vector of the given rotator. You can immediately save this rotator to a variable,
because in the future we will need it in the animation graph. We name the variable AimRotation.
We will display this vector using the blueprint function DrawDebugLIne.
We will postpone the vector from the character, that is, we will use its current position.
We use the GetActorLocation function.
This will be our starting point - line start. The end point will be calculated as the start point plus the forward rotation vector
multiplied by some constant, which will be the length of the vector. Calculate the forward vector for AImRotation.
GetForwardVector. It is a unit vector, so we multiply by some length.
Let it be 1200, for example.
Add to the position of our character and connect it to the line end. Let's set the thickness to 3.
The rest of the parameters can be left unchanged. Let's compile and let's check which vector will be displayed as a result.
Turn the camera up - the vector looks up, turn it down - the vector down. This vector is exactly what we need to calculate
the deflection angle when aiming. Let's get down to animation. Let's use an additional
type of aset, which is designed specifically for aiming. It's called AimOffset.
By analogy with BlendSpace, there are two types of AimOffset - regular AimOffset and AimOffset1D. We will create a regular AimOffset.
Select the skeleton of our character. We name the blueprint AO_BaseCharacter.
And go inside the asset.
It has the same appearance as BlendSpace. It has 2 axes: one of them will be responsible for aiming horizontally,
and the other vertically. So in details, let's name the horizontal axis Yaw.
The character can rotate horizontally from -90 degrees to 90, so we set the
appropriate value for the minimum and maximum. And we call the vertical axis pitch.
The limit values ​​are exactly the same. So, we have created a canvas, let's see what kind
of animations we have. We have several animations that are responsible for aiming.
For example, aiming down, aiming forward, aiming left. I would even call them not so much
animations as poses, because they consist of a minimum number of frames. Before
placing them on the AimOffset graph, we need to adjust a few parameters to make them
compatible with AimOffset. These animations are called additive, that is, in fact, we will add them
to an already existing pose. In the details panel we find the AdditiveSettings section and in the roperty
Additive Anim Type we need to specify Mesh Space. Aim Offset is only compatible with this type of animation.
In the base pose type, select Selected Animation. In the asset selector, you need to set the base pose,
relative to which the delta of our offset will be calculated. We choose our basic Idle pose.
I will also attach a link to the Aim Offset documentation for the lecture, where you can read more.
Let's set these settings for all shooting offsets. We have 9 assets.
All assets are ready, we are going to place them on our graph.
We start with the central one. It's called Aim Offset Forward. Drag it to the center of the graph.
Next, at the point (pitch = 90 yaw = 0), place the Aim Offset Up. By moving the green circle, you can check how the blending is going.
At the point (pitch = -90 yaw = 0) throw Aim Offset Down. In fact, for the character we control, this is already enough,
because our mesh rotates to the right, to the left along with the camera, and we will not have
lateral rotation for the custom hero. But when we deal with artificial intelligence, these rotations for
bots can be done realistically, so let's fill in the entire grid. Throw away the remaining animations: left,
left down, left up,
right, right down
and right up.
Our AimOffset is completely ready. We can move the green circle, see how everything blends at different angles.
We save. Let's see how to add all this to the animation graph.
Back in the animation blueprint, in the anim graph. We need to add our offset after the
pose of the movement has been calculated. We take out the AimOffset on the graph and input the
pose from locomotion to our AimOffset, and pass the AimOffset output to the default slot.
We can experiment with different angles right on our graph, for example, set the horizontal angle
yaw to 90. Compile. And to our idle pose, the offset of the rotation to the right has been added.
And we can also put some value vertically: 45. And the pose blends correctly at any combination of angles.
We can change the variable of speed, on which the running animation depends, set it to some value, for example 500.
Locomotion now gives us a running pose and an offset pose is
correctly applied to it when shooting. Let's also change some values.
Compile. Everything works correctly. And for all this to work on real parameters, we need to
substitute the angles from our AimRotation variable into AimOffset. Right-click on the pin.
Select the split struct pin and connect the pitch angle to the corresponding AimOffset slot. We will not include Yaw,
because the horizontal angle does not make sense when the user controls the character.
We check that when the mouse moves vertically, we correctly apply AimOffset and the shooting now
looks more natural, because the character deviates depending on the direction of shooting.
We can also check the deflection in the jump, that is, aiming at us regardless of the posture of movement.